.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/propose-new-technique-standard.md, before:

---
name: Propose New Technique STANDARD
about: Propose a new technique, with details
title: 'Create new technique: [technique name]'
labels: solve-it content update
assignees: ''

---

Please populate these fields as best as you can:

### Technique name:
The name for the technique (synonyms can be provided later)

### Description:
*A short description of the technique (extended details can be provided later).*

### Synonyms:
*Other names that might be used for this technique.*

### Details:
*A longer set of details can be provided to describe the technique.*

### Examples:
*Examples can be provided e.g. cases where the technique can be used, or tools that offer the technique.*

### Weaknesses and mitigations:
*Free text here is ok for now (see template below, but we might move to separate templates for weaknesses/mitigations in future)*

* Weakness name
  * Weakness details
  * ASTM Error classes (INCOMP, INAC-EX, INAC-AS, INAC-ALT, INAC-COR, MISINT)
  * References
  * Mitigations
    * Mitigation 1:
      * Mitigation name
      * Mitigations details
      * Mitigation references
    * Mitigation 2:
      * Mitigation name
      * Mitigations details
      * Mitigation references
...


### CASE output entity:
* Refer to [CASE Ontology A-Z](https://ontology.caseontology.org/documentation/entities-az.html) to see if any suitable CASE entities exist to model the output of the technique. 

### Proposed CASE output entity (if none are suitable):
You can propose a CASE output entity here if you think it would be useful to model in CASE.

### References
A list of references to support any details provided above. Harvard is used for now but we will move to bibtex representations in future.

Commit message:

Added link to CASE issue tracker for missing classes

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/propose-new-technique-standard.md, after:

---
name: Propose New Technique STANDARD
about: Propose a new technique, with details
title: 'Create new technique: [technique name]'
labels: solve-it content update
assignees: ''

---

Please populate these fields as best as you can:

### Technique name:
The name for the technique (synonyms can be provided later)

### Description:
*A short description of the technique (extended details can be provided later).*

### Synonyms:
*Other names that might be used for this technique.*

### Details:
*A longer set of details can be provided to describe the technique.*

### Examples:
*Examples can be provided e.g. cases where the technique can be used, or tools that offer the technique.*

### Weaknesses and mitigations:
*Free text here is ok for now (see template below, but we might move to separate templates for weaknesses/mitigations in future)*

* Weakness name
  * Weakness details
  * ASTM Error classes (INCOMP, INAC-EX, INAC-AS, INAC-ALT, INAC-COR, MISINT)
  * References
  * Mitigations
    * Mitigation 1:
      * Mitigation name
      * Mitigations details
      * Mitigation references
    * Mitigation 2:
      * Mitigation name
      * Mitigations details
      * Mitigation references
...


### CASE output entity:
* Refer to [CASE Ontology A-Z](https://ontology.caseontology.org/documentation/entities-az.html) to see if any suitable CASE entities exist to model the output of the technique. 

### Proposed CASE output entity (if none are suitable):
You can propose a CASE output entity here if you think it would be useful to model in CASE. You can also submit a proposed class directly via the [CASE Issue Tracker](https://github.com/casework/CASE/issues)

### References
A list of references to support any details provided above. Harvard is used for now but we will move to bibtex representations in future.
